1. Pages --> Home, Feed, Profile, Post, Login, Register, Apology, Template
2. Database --> Songchat.db with two tables
3. Python --> __init__.py, helpers.py
4. CSS --> Styles.css
5. Javascript --> Built into home.html for fadeIn effect

For our page, Aaron and I used seven distinct HTML pages, with one template HTML page utilized in all of them. The template HTML page includes a head that links bootstrap and our styles.css file, as well as the title "Songchat". In the body of the template, we coded the navbar with links to the feed, profile, and post pages when a user is logged in, as well as a log out option on the right of the navbar. When a user is not logged in, we have the navbar display the Songchat tab for the homepage, along with the register and log in tabs on the right of the site. We also acknowledge that the data we use is provided by the Spotify API in the footer of the template site. For the home HTML page, we extended the template.html page and implemented javascript for a fade-in effect for the Songchat title (expanded upon later in this document). Our login page consists of two text fields, one for username and another for the user's password, and a login button. The register page similarly contains a field for the user to enter their username, Spotify username, password, and password confirmation, along with a register button. The profile HTML page contains the logged-in user's username, Spotify username, and a list of their posts. The feed HTML page uses a combination of flask and the database songchat.db to pull the posts, their content, an image of the referenced song's album, and the upvote and downvote buttons and display them on the page. The apology page is our error page, thrown when the user runs into an error on the site.

We created one database, songchat.db, with two tables: one to log users' information and another to log posts for the feed. The "users" table contains "id" (integer), "username" (text) entered by the user, "spotify" (text) entered by the user, "hash" (text) developed from the password the user inputs, and "karma" (integer). The "posts" table contains "user_id" (integer) to specify who made the post referencing the users table's "id" attribute, "post_id" (integer) to identify the post, "song" (text) for the song the user inputs, "content" (text) for the post text that the user inputs, "post_karma" (integer) which tracks the number of karma points the post has.

We also had two python pages, one being the helpers file and another being the primary application file. The helpers python file defines the apology and login_required function for use in the __init__ python file. The __init__ python starts off by importing and loading in all the necessary packages, the songchat.db file, and the Spotify API. Next, it sets up the errors thrown if the user doesn't enter a username, password, spotify username, password confirmation, or if the password confirmation doesn't match the password or the username entered is taken. For the login function, the python file throws an error if the user doesn't enter a username or password or if the password or username are incorrect. For the post function, __init__ ensures that the song entered is valid before pulling inserting the post into the songchat.db file such that it shows up on the feed.html page. The feed function is defined to print the posts kept in the "posts" table in the songchat.db file. Finally, the __init__ file defines the logout function to clear a session when the user chooses to logout.

In regards to design and style, we implemented the styles.css page for the appropriate classes we wanted to use, as well as some javascript in the home.html page. The styles.css page defines the gradient we used for the template for all pages, which goes from the black and green colors used in Spotify's design. These colors are also defined as spot_green and spot_black classes as well. There are also font-size classes defined in the styles file, used for titles and other text throughout the website. For our use of Javascript, we directly implemented it in the home.html page. Our javasript is used in regards to the fadeIn() function and show() function, in which the number in setInterval() determines how quickly the fade happens. We set opacity += .05 in the show() function such that the fade occurs at a speed we thought was nice for our site.

** For context, while we included the karma feature in the songchat.db file and made buttons to upvote and downvote, as well as the karma score displayed on the site of each post, we were unable to fully implement the feature, so we instead implemented the profile page and Spotify API successfully as mentioned in our initial Final Project Proposal **